Three quintessential ingredients added to kadai paneer are onions, green bell peppers and tomatoes. Freshly ground spices known as kadai masala are also added. But if you do not have these whole spices, it is fine.
You can simply add the ground spices like turmeric, red chilli powder, garam masala powder and coriander powder and your kadai paneer will taste good.
I have made kadai paneer a few times with adding ground spice powders and the taste has been good. That said the freshly pounded kadai masala does give strong and bold flavors to the recipe.
Kadai Paneer is one of the most easy to prepare yet delicious paneer dish. You can make it at times when you have unexpected guests, or you are too tired or in no mood to go for an elaborate cooking process.<br>
1. In a grinder or mortar-pestle, take 1.5 tablespoons coriander seeds and 5 to 6 Kashmiri red chilies.
2. Grind to a semi fine powder.
3. In a kadai, heat 3 tablespoons oil. Add ⅓ to ½ cup finely chopped onions.
4. Sauté onions until they turn translucent and soften on medium-low to medium heat.
5. Then add 1 teaspoon ginger-garlic paste.
6. Sauté for a few seconds till the raw aroma of ginger-garlic goes away.
7. Now add 2.5 to 3 cups finely chopped tomatoes. The tomatoes have to ripe, red and sweet. Do not add tomatoes which are very sour.
8. Mix well and sauté tomatoes for 3 to 4 minutes on a medium-low to medium heat.
9. Then add the ground kadai masala to the tomatoes.
10. Mix well. Sauté the tomatoes till the whole mixture become like a paste and starts to leave oil. This method is called ‘bhunao’ in Hindi
11. Now add ¾ to 1 cup capsicum julienne or slices.
12. Sauté the capsicum for some 3 to 4 minutes on medium-low to medium heat.
13. Then add 1 to 2 green chilies or 1 small serrano pepper (slit) and ½ cup water. You can add less or more water as required.
14. Mix very well and sauté until the capsicum is half-cooked. If you prefer you can cook the capsicum completely. Half-cooked capsicum gives some crunch to the dish.
15. Once the capsicum is half-cooked add garam masala powder and salt as required. Mix these with the rest of the masala.
16. Now add the paneer cubes (250 grams).
17. Again mix very well.
18. Lastly add 1 teaspoon crushed kasuri methi (dried fenugreek leaves), ginger julienne (from 1 inch ginger) and 2 tablespoons coriander leaves. Mix again.
19. Serve Kadai Paneer, hot or warm with roti or naan or plain paratha or pudina paratha.